# ShortYOLO-CSP

Rani, P.E., Jamiya, S.S. ShortYOLO-CSP: a decisive incremental improvement for real-time vehicle detection. J Real-Time Image Proc 20, 3 (2023). https://doi.org/10.1007/s11554-023-01256-0

Abstract
Deep learning methods, particularly in the field of vehicle detection, have significantly increased in recent years. It plays an important role in detecting vehicles. In the case of autonomous driving and traffic control systems, accurate vehicle detection is necessary. To achieve accuracy, the network model's depth is increased, resulting in increased computational complexity and slow data processing. During severe weather, the majority of detection systems fail. Therefore, this research develops a new approach called ShortYOLO-CSP to enhance the detection of vehicles in challenging environments based on LittleYOLO-SPP. The depth of baseline network layers is re-designed, and Cross-Stage Partial (CSP) connection technique is used to reduce computational cost. The concatenation of the Spatial Pyramid Pooling (SPP) blocks improves the learning abilities of the model by combining spatial characteristics.  To accelerate the training process, Complete Intersection over union (CIoU) loss function for bounding box regression was adopted. The proposed model not only recognizes tiny cars, but also improves the accuracy of detection in a variety of weather situations, according to extensive testing on the combined datasets of PASCAL VOC 2007, 2012, MS COCO 2014, and Indian Vehicle datasets. Additionally, this framework significantly outperforms the LittleYOLO-SPP by increasing mean average precision (mAP) by almost 10%. PASCAL VOC and COCO achieved state-of-the-art outcomes, with mAPs 91.32% and 63.27%, respectively. Furthermore, the suggested strategy also has a considerable impact on accuracy and cuts down on inference time.

